Hello everyone and welcome to the G-G plot to exercises solutions.
Walk through this lecture I'm going to be walking through some solutions for the G-G plot to exercises
and explaining my logic and programming as I go along.
Let's go ahead and jump to our studio to get started.
OK so here we are our studio.
First thing I want to do is call library G-G plot 2.
And that will allow me to go ahead and check out the MPG data set.
That we'll be working with First if I just say head mpg and go ahead and check out this dataset says
manufacture model information.
It's kind of similar to empty cars except it has some different columns and different information.
So the first plot we wanted to do looks like this.
Let me go ahead and clear the con..
All right.
So I went ahead and typed in the code and deleted the Kurds who can actually walk through it without
seeing the code first.
But here is the plot that we're trying to recreate.
It's a simple histogram of the highway highway mpg values so the column itself is just highway.
It looks like we have some red coloring and if you can kind of tell we have some alpha value.
There's a little bit of transparency because I can see the grid lines here.
Let's go ahead and get started and think about how we're going to tackle this one.
So we kind of minimize that first thing you want to do is sort of for data anæsthetics layer psychologies
you plot pass and my data.
This case it's mpg and I know since I want to do a histogram my static should only be one column value
since histogram is the frequency count.
So we have x.
I'll go ahead and pass in H W Y so you can grab this information by looking at the x axis name highway
here.
And then I want to add in my geometry layer so I can say Geum underscore histogram and that's all you
need for the basics.
Again just like it said in the exercises.
Don't worry if your plots don't match exactly the color of the theme as long as you have a basic understanding
of the grammar graphics that's all this exercise trying to get for you.
Let's go ahead and assign that to people and then we'll just go ahead and say prints.
So if I run that source looks like I have the basics here then I'll go ahead and zoom.
Now what I want to do is go ahead and effect that color.
Maybe the number of bins and my alpha value.
So that will all happen at the geometry layer.
Let's go ahead and start with the fill color which I want to be a red number for histograms.
If I just say color Ellaby the outline of the bars themselves and I will go ahead and say Alpha is 0.5
.
So if I run this source now looks like we're almost there.
So I see the zoom version looks good.
Now let me check the original see if we match zoom.
Looks like we're almost there.
The only difference here that you may not have been able to tell just by looking at the plots was the
number of bins.
So I specified it for the solution for bins to be equal to 20 if you were able to get the spear looking
at the plot.
Don't worry that's totally fine fine but if you just run this you'll see it looks pretty much the same
.
So let me go ahead and expand this.
We can really see the difference.
So this is with bin's equals 20.
And this is with bints equals 30 and if you notice our studio or our in general will actually tell you
that it's using bins equals 30.
Maybe pick a better value with bin with.
So you can specify either the number of bins you want or how wide you want the bins to be.
So something you could have done by looking at the solution plot is taking note of how wide these bins
are just kind of by guessing and then setting with to try to match it.
All right.
So as far as a solution this is all I wanted you to be able to do.
Colleges you plot passing your data frame and she notes a histogram aesthetics is just x value and then
called Geometry of histogram love layer and then you pass some additional arguments there but I'm not
really concerned about is these actual additional arguments more concerned about the layers or the grammar
graphics in that understanding.
Let's go ahead and show what the second plot looked like.
This one's a little more complicated.
All right.
I just jumped.
Put in some code and it cleared it just so we could see what the plot looked like for the second exercise
.
And it was this part right here.
So it was a bar plot of car counts per manufacturer with color filled defined by the actual cylinder
counts.
So if we're going to expand this and take a closer look.
Notice I have again a frequency counter and occurrence count.
But in this case it's not a histogram it's a bar plot.
The reason for that is because the x axis is not a continuous variable it's a discrete one meaning we
have just different groups of manufacturers here versus the histogram we saw earlier weeks we actually
had a continuous variable in the x axis.
Here we have a discrete one just discrete manufacturer groups.
The tricky part here is that there's an additional stacking of these bar plots for the color showing
that we actually are coloring by Factor c y l.
Now is kind of a big hint for you to check out this plot.
The other difference between this plot and a normal plot is the actual background is all clear and white
.
Don't worry too much about that.
We'll show you how we can add that in.
Which is a simple theme command at the end of this.
But let's go to and jump out of this and start building off our plot first layer.
I'm going to go to sign it P.L..
And that's going to be G-G plot pass in my MPG data set.
And since I'm only doing a bar plot I should only have one aesthetic X equals manufacturer.
Right.
So that's my data and aesthetics layer I'm going to go ahead and add to the slayer my geometry layer
.
And it's a bar plot so I know it's geometers score bar and then the tricky part here was the actual
color or fill command.
So if you were to say just fill equals something like blue that would color everything blue.
So let me go in to show what that would look like by printing Piel too.
So if I were to run that we would get a feel for everything to be the same color.
Hopefully you remember from the lectures that if you want your fill or coloring to be defined by another
attribute or variable in your data frame or data set you need to pasan aesthetics inside the geometry
layer.
And here I can go ahead and say fill is equal to factor cylinder and remember to pasand this factor
command because we have cylinder levels it's not a continuous variable.
So if I go and run this I finally get the result.
If you forgot to put factor you would have gotten something that looks like this and noticed it would
try to fill this in as if the number of cylinders was a continuous variable.
So it thinks there is value such as 4.5 cylinders or 5.2 cylinders etc. which is why it's so important
to pass this in with the factor function so he can get the desired result where we basically have a
stacked bar plot.
OK.
Let's go ahead and move on.
We have just two more plots to go.
And for this we're actually in a switch to another dataset than this one is going to be the T-Rex housing
data set.
So we're going to show you what that looks like real quick.
So you just say head.
You could say X housing.
Now we can see we have a housing data set.
This comes of G-G plot 2.
So you have to say library G-G plot 2 before you can actually start calling Tick's housing.
But we have a city Collomb year month sales volumes etc. and the plot we actually want to recreate looks
like this going to go ahead and jump to it.
All right.
Here it is.
So a couple of things we notice here is that we're doing a scatterplot.
So hopefully GM underscore points already starts to come to mind for scatterplot looks like we're doing
a volume column versus sales column.
So that's looking pretty good.
And one other thing I want you to notice here is these points if you can zoom in on these points or
check out these points you'll notice we have darker points here but the points actually have some sort
of transparency to them so we can actually play around with the alpha value in order to show density
of points a little more clearly in this plot.
Let's go ahead and get started to recreate this plot going to go in and clear that the.
And first thing you want to do is as always start for data layer.
So I pass in the data frame I'm working with.
In this case it's t x housing as indicated in the exercise and my aesthetics it's a scatterplot.
I do have an x and y sign and go ahead and say X is sales comma Y is equal to volume 1 to go ahead and
assign that to P L and then I'm going to keep adding to P.L. my geometry layer.
And hopefully you were able to either check the cheat sheet or check the documentation to figure out
that GM underscore point was the correct geometry Alair to use here.
And we can assign that to appeal to and this will give us just the basic plot.
So if I go ahead and prints P.L. to here run the source.
That's the basic plot.
If you can get this far then you understand the grammar of graphics well enough to recreate plots to
the point that you should be satisfied the rest is just sort of icing on the cake as far as making the
visualization a little prettier or a little clear with additional parameters or arguments.
So let's go ahead and add those parameters are arguments.
In this case they fall under GM underscore points.
It should be color blue.
And more importantly we should have an alpha value to this.
So if I go in and say Alpha Let's go out and set it to 0.3.
And check this out.
Now we have a nice indication if I zoom in to this plot where the actual density of my points lies.
So in this case I can tell that there's actually a lot more points over between 0 and around 1000 or
1500 sales versus over here we can see this is just individual points.
So Alpha allows you to actually see very clearly the stacking of points on top of each other.
If everything was opaque you wouldn't be able to tell if there were just one or a couple of points here
versus just thousands or hundreds of points.
And we can make this really clear it's like saying Alpha 0.1.
And if you run that source you get a plot that looks like this.
We zoom in on it.
Now it's very clear that there's a very large density of points in this first quadrant.
OK.
So that was it for that first plot and then the next plot you can actually check it out in the exercise
notebook.
But it was just that at a smooth fit line to this.
I'm going to go in and set this back to Alfas 0.3.
And the thing we had to add it was a curve fit a smooth fit and that's actually just adding a simple
geometry layer.
So we go in to say peel to make it peel three.
It's a little clear.
And then we'll say peel three.
Here is peel two plus and the layer we had to add was Geum underscore smooth.
And I'll go ahead and set the color to red and this is one of the most basic ways we can add a line
of best fit or some sort of smooth thick curve to our lots.
And if you run that source there we can see that line that we just recreated from the exercise notebook
.
OK that's it for those exercises.
Coming up after this you actually have a full data visualization project where you try to recreate a
real date of visualization used in the Economist publication The Economist magazine.
OK.
Hopefully you enjoy these exercises.
Remember the key point here is learning the grammar of graphics and the layers.
Don't worry too much about the alpha or blue or stacking things like color.
The real point you need to get across while doing these exercises is the actual stacking of the layers
for the grammar graphics.
All right thanks everyone and I'll see the next lecture